You have always heard of structured programming and what I am
proposing to you is structured emailing.
All of your emails should follow a set high-level structure.
As well as keeping your emails short,
following a standard structure also helps you write quality emails fast,
but first,
let's look at the metadata of an email before we
jump into the body of the email.
In an email, the To portion is for the intended audience,
the people who must read it.
Do not put every Tom,
Dick and Harry here; only the people that must absolutely need to read it.
Think carefully and thoughtfully on who needs to receive this email.
It will typically be those who must know what's in your email and must
take action based on the information in your email.
Next is the cc, or a.
k.
a.
carbon copy.
It is for the optional audience and remember,
don't expect this list to actually read your email.
You are sending it more like an FYI or out of courtesy.
Also there is the bcc, a blind carbon copy.
It is for a very limited audience.
I don't recommend using bcc.
Basically here is what it means to send a bcc.
You want no one in the To or the cc to know that this person or
persons in the bcc also received the email.
If that is the case, what are you hiding?
I believe in open and honest communication so I don't use this one,
but I wanted to share it with you anyway and to tell you where I stand.
Next is the subject.
Most people haven't a clue what to put here.
Of three of my five C's, I strongly recommend compelling,
which will entice them to read your email and clear,
so it is easy to understand just what the email is all about and concise.
Keep it as short as possible; not too long and not too
short; no fuzzy subjects please.
And lastly, the body.
After you write your email, quickly glance over to your post-it note and say,
is it clear?
Is it concise?
Is it courteous?
Is it consistent?
And is it compelling?
And you will improve the impact of your emails immediately.
Okay,
now let's take a deeper look at the body of an email and the structure for that.
Over time you'll develop a structure that works for you.
Here is a simple structure for the body of your emails to get you started.
I recommend always following this template for your general email,
but of course, feel free to be creative so your template fits your needs.
Okay, the first is the greeting.
It is an acknowledgement of another's arrival or departure such as hello,
how are you, good morning.
You need to always start with something like that, very short and concise.
Next, a compliment or pleasantry.
Typically I make it just one sentence and one short sentence.
Maybe you know they just got back from vacation so you might say,
I hope you had a nice vacation when you were out,
or it might be, hey I hope you had a nice weekend.
Something very short, very personal.
It's very nice to see and read that.
Next, the reason for the email.
Why are you writing this email?
It might be something like hey, as requested,
please see the attached status report.
Also, a call to action.
Do you want or need something from them?
Like, please read and provide me with some feedback.
Some sort of action for them.
Then some sort of closing message.
It could be as simple as thank you, I'll see you at the next meeting,
or something like that.
And lastly of course, a signature block.
Not just Michael, but it's Michael, it's my title,
it's my URL, my email address, phone number,
or whatever else that's important to be in there.
You want to be easily reachable.
Someone might forward your email and if it just says Michael at the bottom,
who is Michael?
How do I get a hold of them?
I see so many times where there is either no signature or just a first name.
That doesn't work for business emails.
Do a good signature.
Okay, now after you write your email, quickly glance over it.
Remember, you have your post-it to the side; clear,
concise, courteous, consistent, and compelling.
Yes, it looks really good!
Alrighty!
Click send.
Now to make your life more simple, come up with templates that you can use.
So maybe you lay out an email for a customer A and
maybe another email for customer B.
It follows this template,
but maybe you have a few more words and things in there that
make sense for that particular customer.
Okay, remember with emails,
you are in the room with them reading it or helping them read it,
so communicate well.
Okay, now let's see an actual example.
Okay, here is an example.
The first, of course, in the upper area is the To and the cc.
So the To is going to Terry and the cc is going to my boss and my team lead.
Next will be the subject, clear and concise, POLAR status report and the date.
Next comes the body.
Now in the body I have the greeting, Hello, Terry.
I have a compliment or pleasantry.
Hey, I hope you had a nice vacation last week.
Then comes the reason.
As you requested, please see my attached status report on project POLAR.
Now you may have several reasons, of course,
but this is just a simple example following the template.
The action I have for Terri is please read and provide me with any feedback.
Next comes the thank-you.
Hey, thank you and I will see you at our next meeting on Friday at 10 a.
m.
So it's a thank-you and a reminder of what's coming up.
And lastly is a complete sig block, the whole package completely.
This is a great quote: "If I had more time,
I would have written a shorter letter.
" Well,
we've come full circle when we discussed the quote
at the beginning of this section.
Write your email, delete most of it, and then click send.
Writing emails that are short and to the point will reduce the time
you spend on email and make you more productive.
By keeping your email short,
you'll likely spend less time on the email and more time on other work.
Of course, that said, writing clearly is a skill.
Like all skills, you're going to have to work at it.
To begin with,
it may take you just as long to write a short email as it took
you to write those long emails; however,
even if this is the case, you'll help your coworkers,
clients,
or employees be more productive because you'll be adding less
clutter to their inboxes and making it easier for them to read and
understand your emails and therefore they'll be able to better and
more quickly respond to your emails. Okay, now let's move on to the interview.